README.md, before:

# backend-rust

Implementation of KAS from [OpenTDF specification](https://github.com/opentdf/spec)

## Features

- **Key Agreement**: Establish secure shared secrets using ECDH.
- **NanoTDF Rewrap**: Encrypt and rewrap keys using established shared secrets.
- **WebSocket Communication**: Handle encryption and rewrap requests over WebSocket.

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- Rust (latest stable version)
- `cargo` package manager

### Installation

1. Clone the repository:

```shell
git clone https://github.com/arkavo-org/backend-rust.git
cd backend-rust
```

2. Build the project to download and compile the dependencies:

```shell
cargo build
```

### Running the Server

1. Ensure you have a valid EC private key in PEM format named `recipient_private_key.pem`.

    ```shell
    openssl ec -in recipient_private_key.pem -text -noout
    ```

2. Generating Self-Signed Certificate

For development purposes, you can generate a self-signed certificate using OpenSSL. Run the following command in your
terminal:

```bash
openssl req -x509 -newkey rsa:4096 -keyout privkey.pem -out fullchain.pem -days 365 -nodes -subj "/CN=localhost"
```

This command will generate two files in your current directory:

- `privkey.pem`: The private key file
- `fullchain.pem`: The self-signed certificate file

Note: Self-signed certificates should only be used for development and testing. For production environments, use a
certificate from a trusted Certificate Authority.

#### Configuration

The server can be configured using environment variables. If not set, default values will be used.

| Environment Variable | Description                              | Default Value               |
|----------------------|------------------------------------------|-----------------------------|
| PORT                 | The port on which the server will listen | 8443                        |
| TLS_CERT_PATH        | Path to the TLS certificate file         | ./fullchain.pem             |
| TLS_KEY_PATH         | Path to the TLS private key file         | ./privkey.pem               |
| KAS_KEY_PATH         | Path to the KAS private key file         | ./recipient_private_key.pem |

All file paths are relative to the current working directory where the server is run.

```env
export PORT=8443
export TLS_CERT_PATH=/path/to/fullchain.pem
export TLS_KEY_PATH=/path/to/privkey.pem
export KAS_KEY_PATH=/path/to/recipient_private_key.pem
export ENABLE_TIMING_LOGS=true
export RUST_LOG=info
```

(Optional) Set the environment variables if you want to override the defaults.

##### Security Note

Remember to keep your private keys secure and never commit them to version control systems. It's recommended to use
environment variables or secure vaults for managing sensitive information in production environments.

2. Start the server:

    ```shell
    cargo run
    ```

The server will start and listen on the configured port (default: 8443) using HTTPS.

### Usage

- **Key Agreement**: The server establishes a shared secret with each client using ECDH.
- **NanoTDF Rewrap**: Clients can send rewrap requests to securely re-encrypt keys with a new shared secret.

## Diagrams

### Key Agreement

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    participant Client
    participant Server
    Client ->> Client: Generate private key (client_private_key) and public key (client_public_key)
    Client ->> Server: Establish Websocket connection
    Client ->> Server: Send client_public_key
    Server ->> Server: Generate private key (server_private_key) and public key (server_public_key)
    Server ->> Client: Send server_public_key
    Server ->> Server: Compute shared_secret = ECDH(server_private_key, client_public_key)
    Client ->> Client: Compute shared_secret = ECDH(client_private_key, server_public_key)
    Note over Client, Server: Both have the same shared_secret
```

Commit message:

Add NATS support and improve WebSocket handling
This update adds NATS support, including installation instructions, connection setup, and message handling. It also refines WebSocket handling by organizing message processing and ensuring proper resource cleanup.

README.md, after:

# backend-rust

Implementation of KAS from [OpenTDF specification](https://github.com/opentdf/spec)

## Features

- **Key Agreement**: Establish secure shared secrets using ECDH.
- **NanoTDF Rewrap**: Encrypt and rewrap keys using established shared secrets.
- **WebSocket Communication**: Handle encryption and rewrap requests over WebSocket.

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- Rust (latest stable version)
- `cargo` package manager
- NATS

```bash
brew install nats-server
```

### Installation

1. Clone the repository:

```shell
git clone https://github.com/arkavo-org/backend-rust.git
cd backend-rust
```

2. Build the project to download and compile the dependencies:

```shell
cargo build
```

### Running the Server

1. Ensure you have a valid EC private key in PEM format named `recipient_private_key.pem`.

    ```shell
    openssl ec -in recipient_private_key.pem -text -noout
    ```

2. Generating Self-Signed Certificate

For development purposes, you can generate a self-signed certificate using OpenSSL. Run the following command in your
terminal:

```bash
openssl req -x509 -newkey rsa:4096 -keyout privkey.pem -out fullchain.pem -days 365 -nodes -subj "/CN=localhost"
```

This command will generate two files in your current directory:

- `privkey.pem`: The private key file
- `fullchain.pem`: The self-signed certificate file

Note: Self-signed certificates should only be used for development and testing. For production environments, use a
certificate from a trusted Certificate Authority.

#### Configuration

The server can be configured using environment variables. If not set, default values will be used.

| Environment Variable | Description                              | Default Value               |
|----------------------|------------------------------------------|-----------------------------|
| PORT                 | The port on which the server will listen | 8443                        |
| TLS_CERT_PATH        | Path to the TLS certificate file         | ./fullchain.pem             |
| TLS_KEY_PATH         | Path to the TLS private key file         | ./privkey.pem               |
| KAS_KEY_PATH         | Path to the KAS private key file         | ./recipient_private_key.pem |

All file paths are relative to the current working directory where the server is run.

```env
export PORT=8443
export TLS_CERT_PATH=/path/to/fullchain.pem
export TLS_KEY_PATH=/path/to/privkey.pem
export KAS_KEY_PATH=/path/to/recipient_private_key.pem
export ENABLE_TIMING_LOGS=true
export RUST_LOG=info
```

(Optional) Set the environment variables if you want to override the defaults.

##### Security Note

Remember to keep your private keys secure and never commit them to version control systems. It's recommended to use
environment variables or secure vaults for managing sensitive information in production environments.

#### Start internal services

```shell
nats-server
```

#### Start backend

 ```shell
 cargo run
 ```

The server will start and listen on the configured port.

### Usage

- **Key Agreement**: The server establishes a shared secret with each client using ECDH.
- **NanoTDF Rewrap**: Clients can send rewrap requests to securely re-encrypt keys with a new shared secret.

## Diagrams

### Key Agreement

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    participant Client
    participant Server
    Client ->> Client: Generate private key (client_private_key) and public key (client_public_key)
    Client ->> Server: Establish Websocket connection
    Client ->> Server: Send client_public_key
    Server ->> Server: Generate private key (server_private_key) and public key (server_public_key)
    Server ->> Client: Send server_public_key
    Server ->> Server: Compute shared_secret = ECDH(server_private_key, client_public_key)
    Client ->> Client: Compute shared_secret = ECDH(client_private_key, server_public_key)
    Note over Client, Server: Both have the same shared_secret
```
